If you are looking for a memorable gift for Father’s Day on June 19th, Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate offers some special visitor experiences. These range from brunch and lunch at the oceanside estate, to gift vouchers for wine excursions and tasting events and wine club membership. Developer Penny Streeter says: “Soon we’ll announce plans for our new Eco Holiday Villas, which are ideal for a short break or weekend away from Cape Town or further afield. We are passionate about creating an exceptional Western Cape leisure destination, a sustainable luxury development. Meanwhile, there is much for visitors to see and do at Benguela Cove.” Moody Lagoon restaurant serves dishes created by renowned chef Annie Badenhorst. Grilled fish, braised pork belly, beef sirloin and parmesan and polenta espuma are on the menu for Father’s Day and subsequent Sundays. From Thursday to Saturday each week, the menu features sharing platters with fresh oysters, cured salmon, cheeses, and cold meats, and main courses such as the popular beer-battered hake and chips, and eight-hour braised and pulled beef brisket. There are hospitality packages at Benguela Cove to suit practically every group size and budget. Visitors can book gourmet picnics in advance and pick up prepared salad hampers for two, with a children’s menu option. The estate provides private dining in its Vinotheque room for up to 12 people, with a choice of prepared dishes, estate wines, and personal service. The Barrel Room can accommodate up to 100 guests for larger gatherings. As a leading wine estate on the Hermanus Wine Route in the Walker Bay region, Benguela Cove offers a diverse selection of wine-related experiences. Families can schedule a relaxing one-hour boat trip on the lagoon with access to the beach and sand bar and views across the UNESCO-designated Kogelberg Biosphere Reserve. Gift vouchers for Father’s Day are available for cellar tours and barrel tastings, to explore the art of winemaking with a one-hour guided tour around the winery, with its huge vats and impressive chandeliers. Fathers, and other adults, can also try their hand at opening a bottle of Champagne using a sabre. Annual membership of the estate’s popular wine club is another gift idea.
All visitors to the estate can view the free art exhibition, without advance booking, on Father’s Day and every day from 10:00 -18:00. ‘The Art of Living: Visit, Reflect, Explore, and Experience’ features established and emerging artists working in a variety of modern styles and materials. Another option for a great family day out is the 18-hole Adventure Golf course, which offers competitive fun with plenty of thrills and laughs as guests confront the many pirate obstacles. Water spraying amusements are available in the new splash pad, while Blackbeard’s Diner offers a popular children’s menu. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za