The City of Cape Town’s family street dining and trading experience comes to Bo-Kaap on 25 June 2022. The event is aimed at benefitting local businesses and trading, and giving residents an open air dining experience. Following on from successful events in other parts of the city, the street closure event will take place on 25th June between 12:00 to 20:00. Taste local cuisine, participate in arts and crafts and enjoy live music and performances. It promises to be a fun day for all. The Bo-Kaap is a community with a uniquely rich history and culture and one of the most visited areas in the city. You can find the best koesisters, sweet treats and Cape Malay food in the Bo Kaap too. These street dining events are a celebration of the inclusivity of having residents from all over the city sharing and enjoying all that the city has to offer in hospitality, food and culture. ‘Many restaurants, vendors and traders are doing their best to recover from the impact of the pandemic and the City is committed to doing what it can to ensure they get through this, and thrive again. We encourage residents to support local businesses and enjoy what’s on offer within their communities,’ said Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis. Within the rich cultural history of the Bo-Kaap precinct is the Iziko Bo-Kaap Museum (IBKM), one of the earliest homes built in the Bo-Kaap area, dating back to the mid-eighteenth century. The Museum was established in 1978 as a satellite location of the SA Cultural History Museum. It was furnished as a house that depicts the lifestyle of a nineteenth-century Muslim family. The most recommended Tours and other activities in Bo-Kaap are: The street dining initiative is to help businesses and vendors with the opportunity to maximise their income in a time of capacity restrictions. We are continuing to campaign for all remaining Covid-19 restrictions to be lifted so the events and hospitality industry can flourish once again. Event footprint includes: Wale Street between Buitengracht and Bantam Rose Street between Wale to Longmarket Street The three main road closures are located at: