South Africa’s leading natural health and wellbeing retailer, Wellness Warehouse proudly opened the doors to its 50th store in Waterstone Village, Somerset West on 23 June.Wellness Warehouse was established in 2007 with a vision of inspiring personal journeys to holistic wellbeing. Today, they are a trusted provider of everything customers need to live life well under one roof. With 50 stores across South Africa (including a dynamic online shop), Wellness Warehouse meets customers wherever they are on their health journeys, and aims to educate, equip, and empower them every step of the way from there. The Wellness team is committed to bringing customers the widest selection of expertly-curated, best-in-class natural health supplements, free-from foods, cruelty-free beauty products, eco home solutions, clean fitness essentials and natural baby care products. For over 15 years, they’ve stood at the forefront of the latest innovations in the wellness space, bringing South Africans the freshest products and solutions to live life well. From specialised solutions and exclusive ranges to great-value bulk offerings, they’ve got every customer’s unique health needs covered. The brand’s continuously expanding national and online footprint is testament to just how deeply they care about the health and wellbeing of South Africans. They are committed to listening to their customers’ needs, and making wellness as simple, affordable, accessible and sustainable as possible. In a truly unique retail offering, they afford each customer who crosses their threshold the opportunity to consult with one of their in-store (and online) Wellness Warehouse Consultants, who are dedicating to assisting them in making lasting positive change according to their lifestyle, goals and concerns. The expert consultants hail from a diverse range of modalities within the natural health field – from homeopathy, naturopathy, phytotherapy and Traditional Chinese Medicine to dietetics, sports science and somatology, to name a few. Many are also trained internally through the Wellness Training Academy.  Customers are encouraged to reach out to Wellness Warehouse Consultants with any queries they may have regarding their holistic wellbeing, from those relating to gut health, immune support, sleep hygiene and stress management to blood sugar management, inflammation solutions, clean fitness support, plant-based eating and detoxification, to name just a few. The 50th store in the impressive Wellness portfolio, Wellness Warehouse Waterstone Village offers customers an exciting world of wellbeing in the heart of the Helderberg. Conscious consumers in the area are invited to explore the wide range of products on offer, get to know their local Wellness Warehouse Consultants, take advantage of their opening offers, and join the Live Life Well Rewards programme to earn up to 3% cashback in store or online.