From 25 June to 18 July, Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden is holding its annual Winter Wonders Special where children 17 years and younger receive free entry into Kirstenbosch. A #mywinterwonders competition will add even more excitement to the winter school holiday. Winter at Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden offers the most sensational views and natural experiences in the Cape. This time of year young and old can expect to experience the vibrant colours of King proteas and Krantz aloe in one of the world’s most acclaimed botanical gardens. Share your #mywinterwonders Capture and share your wonderous winter moments at Kirstenbosch this holiday with the hashtag #mywinterwonders and tag Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden on Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter to stand a chance to win a weekly prize of four Kirstenbosch entry tickets and one adult plus two kids red bus City Sightseeing tickets or an all-in-one Kirstenbosch grand prize from Moyo Kirstenbosch, the Kirstenbosch Tea Room, the Kirstenbosch Gift Shop, the Kirstenbosch Bookshop, Vida e Caffè, the Kirstenbosch Garden Centre and City Sightseeing red bus. Experience all that Kirstenbosch has to offer Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden is open daily from 08h00 to 18h00 during the winter season. Get to Kirstenbosch with the hop-on hop-off red bus with the City Sightseeing 3 for 1 Kids’ Special. Tuesdays are extra special for South African pensioners at Kirstenbosch with free entry for those over 60 years, and a complimentary muffin or scone, and tea or coffee, from Moyo Restaurant on the presentation of your City Sightseeing ticket stub. “Winter can be cold and dull but this is not at all the case at Kirstenbosch. The garden is full of life and colour with many gloriously clear, sunny days to enjoy. Winter Wonders at Kirstenbosch is a great opportunity for families to explore the most beautiful garden in Africa and learn about its magnificent indigenous flora”, says Sarah Struys, Events and Tourism Manager at Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden. For more information please follow @KirstenboschNBG on Facebook and Twitter, and  Instagram @kirstenbosch_nbg, or contact the Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden Information Office at 021 799 8783 or email: KirstenboschInfo@sanbi.org.za