The Google Review reads: “Great little deli. It is like having a reasonably priced farm stall in your neighbourhood.” This review and hundreds more are praising the products, client service and value for money of 42 on Sonneblom Deli, a family-owned Deli in the heart of Stellenridge in Bellville. But how did this Deli start and came to be in Bellville? Anneke van Vuuren, co-owner with her husband Franco, explains that the Deli started from cheese and olive orders for friends and family. “We are foodies and were always on the hunt for specials. We opened our house every second Saturday for order pick-ups. The orders for family and friends grew month-by-month organically to a huge Deli with over 750 products. During Covid hard lockdown, we made plans to offer private shopping to our clients and the Deli hours grew to 6 days a week. Our online shop expanded tremendously during Covid as shoppers from across SA ordered their Deli staples to be delivered. We now offer a big range of gluten-free, keto, plant-based and low sugar products. We also do gift hampers (we call them Love Boxes) for corporate clients like FNB, Harcourts and Santam.”
“We support small businesses, helping them to get exposure for their products. Our bestseller rusks, for example, are made by a husband-and-wife team from Kenridge.“ The 42 on Sonneblom Deli-team now faces another challenge, with municipal by-laws prohibiting them to run the business from their home in Stellenridge. “We are shifting our business to a fully-fledged online Deli with no brick-and-mortar shop,” says Franco. “According to a 2021 interview Mckinsay and Company had with a Russian food retailer, consumption will revolve around two main paradigms: one is food as a utility, and the second is food as a pleasurable experience. For the first one, food basics and utility items, the things that you always stock in your pantry, consumers will shift to fulfillment by subscription or online delivery. For the second one, choosing your own food and treating meals as an interesting and pleasurable experience, people will go to physical locations like supermarkets.” “We are ready to expand our online shopping experience. We courier our products (even sourdough bread!) throughout South Africa. Our online Deli is at 42onsonneblom.co.za, easy shopping from the comfort of your favourite chair. We also cater for wholesale and bulk orders.” For more information contact Cell: 083 294 2015 or visit Online: www.42onsonneblom.co.za Facebook: @42onsonneblom Instagram: @42onsonneblom