There are few places on the planet that can compete with the lifestyle on offer at Benguela Cove, says Penny Streeter OBE. She is the developer of Benguela Cove Lagoon Estate and a serial entrepreneur, with hospitality and medical staffing businesses in South Africa and the UK. “Benguela Cove is located close to the lovely town of Hermanus, known as the Riveria of the Western Cape, about an hour’s drive from Cape Town. Discerning professionals and wine connoisseurs from all over the world have begun to make their way to get some remaining plots available at this vineyard and its ocean-facing estate. Magical sunsets, a haven for birdlife, vineyards, and the lagoon set this estate apart from any other in South Africa – offering a great residential property investment.” Streeter not only calls the estate home, but she has put her money where her mouth is and developed a new-world commercial area just outside the residential estate that would rival any in Napa Valley, California. A 400-ton gravity-fed winery with dazzling chandeliers and a lighthouse, a tasting room, a gift store, an adventure golf experience, and the Moody Lagoon Restaurant are all recent developments to adorn the estate. Visitors appear to enjoy the location and often spend the entire day there, indulging in the varied attractions on offer or simply relaxing and soaking in the ocean and lagoon views. If you enjoy art as much as Streeter does, this is a must-see. An enthusiastic collector of fine art and sculptures, Streeter has developed a gallery that highlights some of South Africa’s finest artists; it will reopen in March 2022, and visitors are sure to be delighted by the estate’s latest paintings and sculptures. A fervent champion of the South African arts community, she has already made the public gardens of her 240-acre UK property, Leonardslee Lakes & Gardens in West Sussex, home to over 80 sculptures by Anton Smit, with exhibits too inside Leonardslee House, which features luxury hotel accommodation and Michelin Star Restaurant Interlude.
“We have never seen the market so busy; people really seem to have sat back and reinvented their lives and are keen to enjoy the highest standard of luxury, where they can cycle, run, swim, ski, and sail, all without leaving the secure estate,” says Streeter, who recently developed three new luxury homes on Benguela Cove and is marketing them from R11.9m. Streeter claims she can help make fantasies come true, whether you want a fully finished home or to create your own. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za