World Rugby has announced the countdown for Rugby World Cup Sevens 2022 – to be hosted in Cape Town in September. Ticket sales opened on Monday, 28 February 2022 – for the three-day spectacular, which will see the eyes of the global rugby family turned on South Africa as the best players in the world from 40 teams battle for the tile of men’s and women’s world champions. Organisers are planning for a packed stadium with more teams, more action and more at stake than ever before for a Cape Town event. “The global vaccine roll-out has allowed the return of capacity crowds around the world, and we’re expecting that experience to return to South Africa by the time of the Rugby World Cup,” said Jurie Roux, CEO of SA Rugby. “The opportunity of seeing the best rugby teams on the planet vying for the title of world champions hasn’t been experienced in South Africa since 1995 which will make this an exceptional occasion. World Cups are unlike any other rugby tournament; for its duration the eyes of the rugby world will be on South Africa, as all roads lead to Cape Town.” “It’ll be bigger, bolder and brighter than anything we have put on before and climax with the lifting of the Melrose Cup and the Women’s Rugby World Cup Sevens trophy on a do-or-die final day. This will be a premium experience at a premium event, clearly distinguishable from a World Series tournament, and I am sure the local and global audience will be keen to show their support.” Sevens teams previously unseen at the Cape Town event – such as Colombia (women) and Hong Kong and Korea (men) – have already qualified to join five pre-qualified women’s teams and eight pre-qualified men’s teams, which include both the Springbok men’s and women’s teams. The event will be the first return of Sevens to Cape Town in what will be close to three years. The 2020 and 2021 Cape Town Sevens events both fell victim to the impact of the pandemic, meaning the Rugby World Cup Sevens will be the first chance for fans to enjoy the unique vibe.