Taking place at the Houw Hoek Hotel from Saturday 19 to Monday 21 March 2022, the 12th annual THIRSTI AFRICANX TRAILRUN Three-Day Stage Race promises to be SA’s most memorable “PARTY ON FOOT” with trail running enthusiasts being treated to the Overberg Region’s most iconic trails. Launched in 2009, the THIRSTI AFRICANX TRAILRUN is synonymous with magnificent trails, spectacular views, mouth-watering food, a relaxed atmosphere, great vibe and most importantly, teamwork! Teams of two trail running enthusiasts (male/female/mixed) will be seen battling it out on a route varying in distances each day. “The 2022 THIRSTI AFRICANX TRAILRUN will once again boast three different routes that are guaranteed to keep things challenging, yet exciting while leaving trail runners in awe,” says Michael Meyer, Managing Director of Stillwater Sports and Founder of the THIRSTI AFRICANX TRAILRUN. “Stage One will start at the Houw Hoek Hotel on Saturday (19 March) and will finish at the iconic Paul Cluver Wine Estate. The perfect start to a weekend of trail running, the route distance will be +-24km with a total ascent of 800m. Expect some hills, fynbos, jeep track next to a river and some seriously fun single track. This route is special as trail runners will get to experience smooth single track that are usually used for mountain biking only. Be sure to stop at the water points and enjoy the views. Remember this is a Three-Day event. Don’t make the general mistake of going out too hard.” “Stage Two is the longest stage, but it’s also the stage where quite often the event is won in the Elite Race, so expect some action on the trails,” continues Meyer. “Starting at Cape Canopy Tours and finishing at the Houw Hoek Hotel, this stage boasts a +-32km route with a 920m ascent. There will be a good mix of jeep track and single track, with some rocky climbs and rolling hills. All-in-all it’s a very runnable route but be sure to keep something in the tank for the last 5km. It’ll be a tough, but fun finish.” “Stage Three aka ‘Dress Up Day’ will start and finish at Houw Hoek Hotel,” confirms Meyer. “The shortest of the three routes, runners will close off the event with a +-18km run that boasts a 720m ascent. This route is by no means flat but boasts a very fast start and then some magnificent single and jeep track. Expect some spectacular trail in the mountain, which is technical under foot – this is a trail running event after all. Don’t forget to get your outfits ready for ‘Dress Up Day’. We’re looking for creativity and gees. There are awesome sponsor prizes up for grabs. We can’t wait to welcome trail runners to the start line on Saturday ready to #RunTheAfricanX in 2022.”