Made in Cape Town (MiCT) initiative, launched in November 2021 by the Craft and Design Institute and the City of Cape Town’s Enterprise and Investment department is to promote the pulling power of small and local businesses as significant contributors to the local economy. The numbers tell one story, but more relevant to the reasons why ‘local is lekker’ are the human faces behind the number; the people who are hustling every day to put food on the table for their staff and communities. Their commitment to building their businesses and looking after their staff offer a very human perspective on the economic indicators. A MiCT survey conducted in December 2021 revealed that nearly 60% of people (out of 251 respondents) always buy products they know are produced locally. Cape Town is full to the brim of creative ideas, local innovations and successful home-grown businesses. The MiCT survey revealed some of the most-loved recognised brands that originated in the Mother City and surrounds. Food brands such as Bootleggers, Kauai and Groot Constantia, and the gatsby, the city’s signature sandwich, were at the top of the list. Other, newer outlets included the social impact coffee chain I Love Coffee, the band Freshlyground, Peacock Tea, and the board game 30 Seconds. Larger retail giants Ackermans, Pick n Pay, Woolworths, Foschini and Edgars. Plans for the launch of an MiCT accreditation are underway, which will enable businesses to be formally recognised as #madeincapetown – a prestigious accolade that will give them a lever over competitors for buyers. The Made in Cape Town accreditation symbol will become a sought-after marker of the geographic origins of the business’s products, services and systems, according to Erica Elk, Chief Executive Officer of the CDI. Businesses will be able to apply for accreditation which in the long term will become a sought-after mark of origin for eligible businesses, offering them a more prominent profile and a distinct competitive advantage in an ever-more competitive world.