Visitors to Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate can now see the works of 30 South African artists at a new contemporary art exhibition that estate developer Penny Streeter OBE opened on 12 March 2022. This is an international art galleries series that includes events at venues in the UK owned by the Streeter family. Entry to the estate and exhibition is free of charge, which is open every day, from 10:00 – 18:00. With its title ‘The Art of Living: Visit, Reflect, Explore and Experience’, the Benguela Cove exhibition features artists with a wide range of contemporary styles and materials. In the relaxed atmosphere of the gallery and outside areas overlooking the beautiful lagoon, guests can view the paintings and sculptures, which are all for sale, whilst enjoying award-winning wines from Benguela Cove. Penny Streeter says: “The launch of our international Benguela Galleries here in South Africa was a great success. As a family, we champion new and established art talent at Benguela Cove and our two UK estates, at Mannings Heath Golf and Wine Estate and Leonardslee Lakes and Gardens in Sussex. With the growing numbers of visitors to all three venues, they offer an excellent showcase for curated art, to bring art to as wide an audience as possible.” In 2021 at Leonardslee Lakes and Gardens, the Streeters created one of the largest sculpture parks in Europe, resulting from a collaboration with South African artist, Anton Smit. The featured artists for the opening of Benguela Galleries include: Ann Gadd, Anthony Gadd, Boniface Chikwenhere, Gerhard van Vuuren, Gavin Larkin, Andries Visser, Kevin van Niekerk, Jade Doreen Waller, Jimmy Law, David Kuijers, Louis Chanu, Proud Sibanda, Tertius van Dyk, Haidee Nel, Francois van Dyk and Floris van Zyl. This is a return to one of his favourite venues for Floris van Zyl. The expressionist painter’s artwork includes landscapes, still life images, portraits, animals and figure studies: The gallery is the latest attraction for homeowners on the private estate at Benguela Cove. In the hospitality area, they and visitors can also enjoy a range of South African dishes at Moody Lagoon restaurant, prepared by noted chef Annie Badenhorst. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za