The latest Western Cape tourism figures show that traveller confidence has returned, evidenced in February 2022 recording the highest number of two-way (sum of arrival and departure passengers) international terminal passengers over the last five months, representing a 28% growth from the 98,211 two-way passengers recorded in January 2022. The start of 2022 has shown a promising return to pre-COVID passenger travel numbers, with February 2022 currently showing the highest international terminal numbers since the resumption of international travel in October 2020. A total of 125 861 international passengers and 462 219 domestic passengers returned to Cape Town International Airport, producing recovery rates of 52% and 71%, respectively when compared to the same period in 2019. Hotel occupancy grew from 23% in February 2021 to 60% in February 2022, representing a recovery rate of 75% when compared to February 2019. Data obtained from 27 participating attractions across the province reflected a 93% growth in the number of visitors when compared to February 2021, and nearly half of what it was in February 2019. Based on mobile location data insights from 53 810 domestic and 939 international tourists, the Cape Winelands was the most popular region for domestic visitors in February 2022, while Cape Town was more popular with international tourists. Natural attractions such as Table Mountain and Cape Point were popular with both domestic and international tourists. Additionally, from a sample size of 1 022 tourists who visited the Stellenbosch Wine Route in February 2022, close to 80% were locals, 21% were domestic and just over 2% were international tourists. Spier was the most visited farm on the route, followed by Skilpadvlei and Zevenwacht. According to the Tourism Sentiment Index (TSI), which provides a comprehensive look at how destinations are driving positive perceptions about their tourism offerings through online conversations, the biggest volume of positive online conversations about the Western Cape in February 2022 was around outdoor activities. Minister of Finance and Economic Opportunities, David Maynier said: “We are seeing clear and exciting indications of a recovery in the tourism and hospitality sector in the Western Cape, after taking a significant knock due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent travel restrictions. The Western Cape is back in business with domestic and international travellers enjoying the many wonderful attractions on offer across the Western Cape. We expect that, in the run up to and over the up-coming Easter weekend, we will see further improvements in tourism numbers. Through Wesgro, we will continue to aggressively market our destination to our key tourism markets, so we can take full advantage of pent-up traveller demand to visit the Western Cape.” “Thanks to the phenomenal success of our domestic and international tourism campaigns and the extraordinary efforts of all our stakeholders and tourism businesses, there is huge pent up demand from travellers to visit the Western Cape. We recently had four Western Cape towns, including the Mother City being identified in the ‘TSI’s 100 most loved destinations,’ confirming the destination’s popularity both locally and globally. The Western Cape is home to world class attractions, unbeatable hospitality and incredible history and culture, and 2022 also promises a host of unmissable events. Now is a fantastic time to book a trip and enjoy the best the Western Cape has to offer,” commented CEO of Wesgro and Official Cape Town Air Access Spokesperson, Wrenelle Stander.