Runners can make their run count by supporting one of five local charities when entering the iconic Absa RUN YOUR CITY CAPE TOWN 10K that will take place in the Mother City on Sunday, 15 May 2022. Established in 1988, Reach For A Dream seeks to inspire hope and help children to believe in the power of dreams – their goal and focus is to ensure that no child who has been diagnosed with a life-threatening illnesses, goes without knowing the power of a dream.
A non-profit organisation, help2read’s mission is to erase illiteracy in South Africa’s disadvantaged communities, one literacy lesson at a time. Since the organisation’s first one-on-one reading session in 2006, help2read has worked in over 400 schools and reached 23 000 children through their literacy programmes. Cotlands is a registered non-profit organisation that focuses on early childhood development (ECD) with a rich 85-year history of serving young, vulnerable children. Cotlands’ vision is to see children thrive in their formative years by increasing their access to quality play-based early learning opportunities. Established in 1872, the Cape of Good Hope SPCA (Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) is the founding society of the SPCA movement in South Africa and is the oldest animal welfare organisation in the country. Started in 1957, Die Burger Kinderfonds is a non-profit organisation that assists children in the community that require trauma counselling. Event information: The Absa RUN YOUR CITY Series is a diverse 10 km road running series that brings together avid runners, walkers and individuals looking to live healthier lifestyles. Although emphasis is placed on hosting a mass participation road race that highlights city landmarks, it includes magnificent views and features lively performances from some of the host city’s leading performing arts groups, all three events will also boast an exciting Contender Programme (aimed at the racing snakes), while boasting an impressive Prize Purse.