Further education options have expanded dramatically over the past year, responding to changed demands in the workplace. The good news is that employers now are heavily focused on hiring candidates with specific Information Technology-related skillsets, and that many of these skillsets can be developed in a relatively short period of time, even without a previous IT background, an education expert says. “Many people are currently evaluating their careers, realising that they need to invest in the development of their skills to ensure their continued employability,” says Elbie Liebenberg, MD at MindSharp, a brand of SA’s largest private education provider, ADvTECH.
Liebenberg says those who seek to build on their existing skillset in the new year, do not need to make radical changes in their life to be able to do so, as there are great new options available to those who want to learn new skills – or a new combination of skills – in a relatively short period of time while continuing in their current career. RELATED FIELDS OF STUDY WHICH WILL FORTIFY YOUR CV: Web Developer – In 2020, more businesses and companies went online and remote than any time in human history. Brick and mortar stores became online shops; boardroom meetings became online syncs; and even things as simple as buying groceries increasingly moved online.  Behind all of this digital activity are full stack web developers. Courses to consider: HTML & CSS, JavaScript, HTML5 Application Development. Data Security Specialist – As data becomes the world’s most valuable resource, the demand for data security is ever-increasing.  Qualifying as a data security specialist will enable you to understand the tools, techniques and knowledge required to also start thinking like a data scientist, a skill every modern-day working professional should have. Courses to consider: Python, Data Security Management, Databases. Software Engineer – Software engineering is a creative career that allows you to work with software, hardware, and other computer systems in a wide variety of industries and jobs. This career places you at the heart of the digital economy, with endless scope for growth. Courses to consider: Java, Python, HTML5 Application Development. Web Designer – A web designer is an IT professional who uses various computer software applications and programming languages to create and maintain web content. This usually involves designing the layout, visual appearance and usability of a website to ensure the user has a pleasant browsing experience. Courses to consider: HTML & CSS, JavaScript, Adobe Illustrator CC 2020. Graphic Designer – Graphic designers use their creativity to create visual concepts that communicate certain ideas and messages. These visual concepts are created manually or by using computer software, and include a variety of media. Courses to consider: Adobe Photoshop CC 2020, Adobe InDesign CC 2020, Adobe Illustrator CC 2020.