“New year—a new chapter, new verse, or just the same old story? Ultimately, we write it. The choice is ours,” – Alex Morritt. Many of us are looking forward to the fresh start that the new year brings. That also means many of us are hoping to move into the new year with big plans. Regardless of whether you’re a resolution-maker or a goal-setter – you need to set a goal and stick to it. One easy way to get started is to write out a few new smart goals for 2022 and decide what is actually achievable for you in these meaningful areas of your life: Spiritual Goals – Pick up a new devotional, or start a daily journal. Fitness Goals – Hit the gym more often. Educational Goals – Finish your degree, or read an inspirational/motivational book every month. Family Goals: Plan one-on-one get-togethers with your kids, and have a standing date night with your spouse. Career Goals – Work toward a promotion or raise, learn something new about your line of work, discover what you’re passionate about, or send out resumés if you’re looking for a new career path. Social Goals – Look for new ways to connect with others. Financial Goals – Start saving for retirement, or get out of debt. Most people are apathetic about their goals and only write them down once a year. The things upon which your life depends most are based on the action you take daily – write your goals down every day and choose objectives that are just unreachable. Setting improbable goals might cause a person to become disappointed and loose interest. A good idea is to journal your goals as though you have already accomplished them. Remember, you are setting these goals for yourself, not anyone else; anything is possible; you have more potential than you realize. Success is your duty, obligation, and responsibility. There is no shortage of success. Regardless of the size of the goal, it will require work. After writing your goals, be willing to rewrite them every day until they are achieved. Today is the perfect day to start living your new life. Life’s too short to not be fulfilling your potential and following your heart’s desires. Recommended Reading: The 10x Rule – Author: Grant Cardone The Only Difference Between Success and Failure. Achieve “Massive Action” results and accomplish your business dreams! While most people operate with only three degrees of action-no action, retreat, or normal action-if you’re after big goals, you don’t want to settle for the ordinary.