As ‘semigrants’ continue to migrate to the Western Cape from other areas of South Africa, the province is likely to outperform economically and in terms of property sales, says Penny Streeter, owner of Benguela Cove Lagoon Estate, Hermanus: “This is based on the province’s ability to recruit skilled immigrants with high purchasing power, which is critical for economic growth, and which has lately improved. Omicron may have dampened the market slightly, but now that the evidence appears to be that it is a much milder form of Coronavirus, with significantly fewer hospitalisations, all indicators are that this year will progress as 2021 ended – encouragingly, with growing demand driving purchases, particularly in prime coastal locations like Hermanus.” Recently, the Western Cape has been the most popular semi-migration destination in the country because of the growing recognition, at home and abroad, that the province offers a great lifestyle as well as significant economic potential. It is also seen as a region with relatively well-run provincial and local governments. As time has passed, communication and information technology has improved and enabled businesses and individuals to work nationally and internationally with far greater ease and confidence. There is also an encouraging level of new property enquiries at the Benguela residential estate from Cape Town, as homeworkers and those wanting a second home seek the benefits of the ideal rural lifestyle of a waterfront location with sea and mountain views, within a beautiful vineyard estate, with all the benefits that it offers. “Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate is low-density and there is ample private space between each house and plot for complete tranquillity and relaxation. You can also participate if you choose in the life of the adjoining wine farm and hospitality area. This includes wine tastings and other events, including the Wine-makers Dinner hosted by our own, award-winning Johann Fourie and his team, to celebrate the harvest. “There are popular wine tasting pontoon tours of the cove, the Moody Lagoon restaurant where you can enjoy delicious food with the produce from the wine and olive farm, as well as arts events and exhibitions. These include the stunning sculpture park, with the works of Anton Smit, and live music; the summer programme that’s now on is a big success, and supports local artists.” The 200-hectare estate features 124 plots. Over half of these are now developed as luxury waterside properties by their private owners, all with fully managed security, water and other services and good Wi-Fi coverage. The residential plan at Benguela Cove is designed to give new plot buyers freedom of expression when designing a new home whilst preserving and protecting the harmony achieved through architectural controls that apply to all new developments. It has received numerous international accolades, including the Titan Property Award. “The standards allow for a modern or traditional take on Cape vernacular architecture. They were created to maintain the estate’s rural character and stunning views. By mixing both built and natural fabric, the development achieves a balance between luxurious estate living and pristine nature,” says Penny Streeter. Environmental protection and improvement is a passion of the estate developer and management team of the wine farm. This has resulted in many awards in recent years, including as a World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) Conservation Champion. For more information contact +27 (0) 824999 774 or visit www.benguelacove.com or Email: developer@benguelacove.co.za