La Récolte Retirement Village, a luxury estate situated in Stellenberg in the Northern Suburbs of Cape Town, has launched Block D, the final phase of the development. Jessica Kolver-Louw, property sales agent for the C4 Property Group, says: “The estate offers the perfect mix of tranquil living and city amenities, plus a lot more.” Other amenities on the estate include the modern Care Centre, which offers advanced facilities and 24-hour moderate to complete care. The Clubhouse boasts a variety of amenities such as a state-of-the-art industrial kitchen and catering services, a gym, library, beauty salon, stacking doors to view the spectacular, ever-changing mountains and outdoor braai-area. These facilities are open to all residents and their guests. Block D will offer seven unit types, ranging from one bedroomed to two bedroomed apartments. Each unit will be fitted with floor to ceiling tiles in the bathroom, open-plan kitchen equipped with a Defy oven, hob and extractor fan, living room, balcony, and granite top kitchen counters. Block D units will have allocated basement parking at no extra cost, and the basement will also offer a laundry room for washing and drying. The development group’s managing director, Jaco Steyn of Steyter Construction, adds that the development suits the varied requirements of retirees. “La Récolte offers three essential benefits – location, security and comfort. We’re one of very few developments where we can honestly say that it’s your retirement on your terms. All services such as house cleaning, catering, and nursing can be arranged to suit your lifestyle and budget. Furthermore, we pride ourselves on the fact that our units are spacious compared to other developments. We offer a comprehensive product at an affordable rate.” Block D will sell from R1 695 000 for a one-bedroomed apartment to R2 985 000 for a spacious two bedroomed apartment. Buyers can choose between pre-selected contemporary finishes. For more information visit www.larecolte.co.za, call Jessica Kolver-Louw on 074 888 2132, or e-mail on jessicak@c4propertygroup.co.za