Visitors to Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate can expect to be met with roaring log fires and a warm welcome for a great day out this winter, says estate developer Penny Streeter OBE. There is a range of new experiences to enjoy amid the natural beauty of this protected environment, which is committed to the WWF’s Conservation Champions’ charter. The estate will continue to feature pontoon cruises on the Lady Bonnie throughout the winter season. This is an ideal time for whale watching, as well as spotting the wild horses that roam the lagoon cove. The hour-long cruise is free for two guests when they buy any case of wine, available from Wednesday to Sunday, from 10am to 4pm. Benguela Cove is home to the 200-hectare wine farm in one of South Africa’s most precious coastal environments, set within a protected nature reserve. The estate is home to some 100 species of birds including owls, blue cranes, guinea fowl and flamingos within its protected reserves and wetlands. Visitors might also spot the small buck, mountain leopards and wild horses that are also known to make an appearance on the estate. To keep the chilly blues at bay, there is a new winter tasting special in the hospitality area. This includes freshly baked ciabatta, together with cheese fondue and a selection of dips, and Glühwein, made from the vineyard’s red wine. This can all be enjoyed in the tasting room with log fires, and views across Benguela Cove: seven days a week until August 31st at R320 for two guests. Guests can be a winemaker for a day and participate in a hands-on wine blending experience in the state-of-the-art winery. It is an opportunity to see exactly what happens in a vineyard wine cellar and blend your own wine from the estate cultivars with guidance from the vineyard team. Bookings are for a minimum of four guests at R400 per person, with a maximum group size of 15 people. The estate also offers private vineyard tours with a gourmet dining experience. This includes a tasting session of five estate wines in the vineyards while overlooking the lagoon. The tour finishes with a gourmet two-course lunch at the estate’s Moody Lagoon restaurant, with seasonal fresh produce, which can be paired with award-winning wines, at R800, available from Wednesday to Sunday weekly. The Art of Living Exhibition continues throughout the winter months at Benguela Cove. It features a new range of works by established and emerging artists working in various modern styles and materials. Guests can enjoy a glass of wine while viewing the paintings and sculptures, which are all for sale, in the relaxed atmosphere of the gallery and outside areas overlooking the lagoon. During the winter months, the estate organises team-building and group events for businesses and other organisations, including schools. In the relaxed atmosphere of the estate, guests can enjoy a round of pirate-themed miniature golf, with its 18-holes and range of challenging obstacles. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za