Passenger performance for the international terminals at Cape Town International Airport remains positive as we enter the South African winter season.
North America: United Airlines began operating their year-round Newark/New York/Cape Town route on 5 June 2022. They have also applied to operate 3 flights per week from IAD-CPT (pending approval). Delta Airlines will operate a triangular route from ATL-JHB-CPT starting October 2022. They have also applied to operate 3 flights per week from Atlanta/Cape Town from November 2022 (pending approval).
Europe: KLM recently expanded frequencies on their Cape Town/Amsterdam route to 6 times per week. This will return to a daily service from 11 July 2022 and will further expand to 10 times per week from October 2022. Lufthansa operates from Frankfurt/Cape Town, 5 flights a week, while British Airways flies from London Heathrow/Gatwick to Cape Town, 7 flights a week. Turkish Airline operates 4 flights a week from Istanbul to Cape Town.
Asia and Middle East: Emirates operates daily flights to Cape Town. Quatar Airways operates 10 flights a week from Doha to Cape Town. Singapore Airlines fly daily from Singapore to Cape Town (SIN-JHB-CPT-JHB-SIN).
Rest of Africa to Cape Town: Air Botswana (Gabarone, 3x per week), Ethiopian Airlines (Addis Ababa, daily), Fly Namibia (Windhoek, 6x per week), Kenya Airways (Nairobi direct 2x per week, Nairobi Livingstone, 2x per week, Nairobi Victoria Falls 1x per week), TAAG (Luanda, 3x per week), RwandAir (Kigali-Harare, 3x per week), Airlink (Windhoek 3x Daily, Walvis Bay Daily, and Victoria Falls 6x per week, Maun daily).
Planned Routes
Air Belgium plans to operate a seasonal Brussels/Cape Town route starting in September 2022, with two flights per week. Virgin Atlantic will resume operations of their London Heathrow/Cape Town route starting end October 2022, with daily flights. Condor will resume operations of their Frankfurt/Cape Town route starting 4 October 2022, with 3 flights per week.
Edelweiss will resume operations from Zurich 3 flights a week starting in October. Air Mauritius plans to operate a direct flight to Cape Town with 2 flights per week, starting November 2022. Air France will resume operations from Paris, 3 flights a week, at the end of 2022. (*subject to change)