The Apostle Battery, a World War II defence station which falls within the SANParks managed Table Mountain National Park, is set to be revitalised and reimagined in a joint collaboration between NEWMARK Hotels & Reserves and ILIOS Travel. The historic military battery on the mountains above the seaside enclave of Llandudno, is to become a unique retreat hotel following the announcement by SANparks and NEWMARK Hotels & Reserves that the site will be re-developed into a premier hospitality destination consisting of luxury accommodation, eateries, a spa, retail offerings, a museum and interactive experiences. Renowned hospitality designers, Fox Browne Creative, have been tasked with reinterpreting and reinventing the site by creating a series of welcoming, cool, contemporary, high-end, authentic, inclusive and reflective experiences that remain true to the original history and spirit of the military site. Designed in partnership with Jack Alexander, the two intimate mountain lodges will be built from light gauge steel and canvas.
The design of the lodges and suites is contemporary and luxurious, while complementing the original style of the military structures on the site. The interior style will feature understated luxurious elements made up of the finest local South African furniture and crafts. The Mountain Lodge is centred around the three original gun sites known as the Apostle Battery, originally constructed in 1940 as an important part of South Africa’s naval defence system. In addition to the three-gun batteries, the existing buildings at the Apostle Battery, all constructed between 1939 and 1945, include a guardroom, workshop, quartermaster sergeant’s room, mess halls, soldiers’ dormitories, a radio room, generator room, storeroom and ammunition room. The Rejuvenation Destination Spa will feature private treatment rooms, salt and steam chambers, an eco-friendly plunge pool with sundeck and a state-of-the-art gym. These facilities will be available to be enjoyed by lodge guests, as well as day-spa visitors.
The historic battery guns on site will form an integral part of the development, and that the heritage of the site remains key to the entire project. The sensitive development and renovation of the Apostle Battery military site will take approximately three years to complete, with 2025 pinned for the opening of the still to be named small luxury retreat hotel.