The story of Colonel Harland Sanders is truly remarkable. This story is inspirational because it’s an example of how perseverance, dedication, and ambition along with hard work can create success; regardless of your age. Colonel Sanders was rejected 1009 times before successfully selling his Kentucky Fried Chicken recipe! He had failed at every job he’d tried earlier on in his life, lawyer, salesman, you name it. Humble Beginnings His father died when he was just 6 years old, leaving him the man of the house with a mother and two younger siblings. He picked up the art of cooking quickly and mastered many dishes by the age of 7. During his early years, Harland worked different odd jobs such as a farm-hand, streetcar conductor, soldier, fireman, self-taught lawyer, insurance salesman, and steamboat operator. At the age of 40, he was cooking for travelers out of his service station. His cooking fame spread, and soon there were huge lines for his food. Sanders then moved across the street to a motel/restaurant to service the high demand. During this time, Sanders had also been tinkering with his special herbs and spices to make the perfect fried chicken. Sanders also ended up reaching his trademark 11 herbs and spices. In 1935, he was made into an honorary Colonel by the governor of Kentucky for his cooking skills. At the age of 60, Colonel Sanders had to shut down his restaurant business because a new highway was being built where his restaurant was located. At the age of 65 he was living from $99 social security checks in a small house, driving a beat-up car. He decided it was time to make a change, so he thought about what he had to offer that other people may benefit from. His mind went to his fried chicken recipe, which his friends and family loved. Persistence He left his home state of Kentucky and travelled throughout the country, trying to sell his recipe to restaurants. He even offered the recipe for free, asking for only a small chunk of the money that was earned. However, most of the restaurants declined his offer. In fact, 1,009 restaurants said no. But even after all the rejections, he persisted. He believed in himself and his chicken recipe. By 1964, Colonel Sanders had 600 franchises selling his trademark chicken. At this time, he sold his company for $2 million dollars but remained as a spokesperson. In 1976, the Colonel was ranked as the world’s second most recognizable celebrity. Today, KFC is one of the largest fast-food franchises in the world and over the years, the company has been owned by RJ Reynolds, Pepsico and is currently under Yum Brands.
It’s remarkable how the man started at the age of 65, when most retire, and built a global empire out of fried chicken. The Colonel’s success story is inspiring, and filled with hope for others who think it’s too late.