Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate has seen a resurgence of interest in residential plot purchases, with a number of sales in the last 12 months, as well as the completion of three new houses, says the developer Penny Streeter OBE: “The woes of the past few years thankfully seem to be behind us; many people appear to have re-evaluated their lives and are keen to make a permanent home on this beautiful vineyard estate at what was previously considered to be purely a holiday home location. It is good news for Hermanus, helping to boost the local economy. We intend to continue building new homes as we believe there is still unmet demand for finished luxury homes.” The Moody Lagoon restaurant offers a large open space that has attracted business groups and private parties for anniversary and birthday celebrations, and the developer’s future plans under consideration include the addition of a hotel and a second restaurant on the site, to create a smaller, more intimate dining space, as well as a delicatessen. The private estate has 124 residential erven, with 5 km of lagoon frontage and access restricted to residents and their guests. There is a clubhouse, tennis court, swimming pool, jetty, boat storage and a launch area giving access to the lagoon, which is protected by a sandbar. The separate commercial area features 70 hectares of vines and a winery, with wine tasting and sales, a restaurant, a children’s play area, and a popular programme of music and arts events. Highlights in the last 12 months, says the developer, included the installation of solar energy in the winery and the award of World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF) Champion status for ‘exceptional commitment to the collective conservation of threatened habitat in South Africa’s Succulent Karoo and the Cape Floral Kingdom, as well as for outstanding dedication to environmentally responsible farming practices.’ The estate also won gold in the international TITAN Property Awards for residential and hospitality development – for architectural design, interior design, property development, real estate, and marketing. March 2022 saw the launch of an extensive art exhibition, which features works by over 30 of South Africa’s top artists, including the acclaimed 7-metre bronze sculpture ‘Faith’ by Anton Smit. This is an international art galleries series that includes events at venues in the UK, owned by the Streeter family. Entry to the Benguela Cove estate and exhibition is free of charge, and it is open every day, from 10:00 until 18:00. The winery team, under the guidance of Cellar Master Johann Fourie, has continued to win awards for its cool-climate wines. The unique climatic conditions create a special terroir to produce wines that impress the judges at international competitions, as the lowest-lying vineyard, with the longest seaboard in the world. The south-easterly sea breeze is chilled by the Benguela Current flowing up from Antarctica, to cool the grapes at night after warm summer days, for slow ripening and perfect viniculture. During the year, the homeowners received a wine allocation of 72 bottles of Benguela Cove wines. The estate’s wine club expanded over the last 12 months, with new members joining to enjoy the discounts and range of special offers. Johann Fourie said: “We had concerns about the harvest this year, but it all came good. The longer hanging time has made for slow, even and optimum ripening at lower sugar levels, creating intense wines packed with aromatic, opulent fruit flavours, soft and juicy tannins balanced with fresh acidities and a level of brightness and purity to the wines.” “Look out for our first releases from vintage 2022 in early May as we launch our newly estate produced and bottled Lighthouse Collection Rosé and Sauvignon Blanc wines. Those who joined us for our harvest celebration event were lucky enough to have had a sneak preview and will know they’re wines worth waiting for!” For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za