Thirty years ago, Eve, Tanja Myburgh’s mother, established an equestrian business in Durbanville, called the Tack Shack. From small beginnings in 1992, and Tanja joining Eve in 1995, the business has grown into a thriving One-Stop Equestrian store, employing 28 staff. Eve started riding at Arnim’s Place Riding School on Bottelary Rd, Kuils River many years ago. After a few months, she introduced Tanja, then 10-years-old to horse-riding.
Scared and intimidated at first, Tanja soon became completely addicted to the sport. “I loved being with horses and was exhilarated by the sport and competing in events. Arnim’s Place Riding School was the beginning of my journey with horses. My mother purchased her first horse, Sirrocco, a head strong boereperd cross saddler. We loved him to bits! He taught me to ride, staying in the saddle and taking control,” Tanja says. “On my 13th birthday my parents bought me my first horse, ‘Take it Easy Dusky’. He was a Thoroughbred and not the easiest horse to ride, but we became a great team. We took part in many competitions through my Novice and Junior riding career, and I competed in many a show and performed well. I was also chosen to represent Western Province in dressage and competed in Welkom in the disciplines of dressage, showing, eventing, and jumping. I have been riding ever since and still own 3 horses. These days I no longer compete although I still enjoy riding,” Tanja continues. Tack Shack Background Eve had been working for HGS Trading, a saddlery store in Durbanville (on main road next to Standard Bank) to earn an additional income for Tanja to continue riding and to maintain her own horses. When the business was liquidated, the owner asked Eve if she would be interested in purchasing the business. Although she was interested, no bank would loan her R30 000. Eventually, she found a silent partner, as well as an active partner. Each purchased a third of the business and a seed was planted. Eve had borrowed R10 000 from her sister for the start-up and the Tack Shack was established in November 1992.  “In 1995, now age of 25 and working at Old Mutual I was asked by Eve to join the business as part of a plan to buy out the partners. It was a big decision for me to move to something uncertain with no guarantees, but Old Mutual was destroying my soul. Needless to say, I took the leap that same year and joined Eve at the Tack Shack. I have never looked back.” Tanja beamed. “In 1996, we were presented with opportunity to purchase our own property at 17 New Street, Durbanville. Once again big decision time since the banks would not help with a 100% bond. We had to borrow the deposit from my aunt and purchased the property. Tack Shack now had its own roof. Tanja says. Sadly, Eve passed away in 2009, and she had to take up the reins.” ”Although it was a difficult time, the business continued to grow and expand. Tanja’s husband joined her in 2016 and has been a great support/sounding board for the last few years. The workshop eventually moved to another premises to make for the ever-growing retail operation. Equestrian products  Tack Shack manufactures all leather equestrian products, as well as repairing saddles. Their wholesale offering to other equestrian businesses is also showing strong growth. Tack Shack is also an importer of goods from across the globe and currently receives containers monthly.  Tack Shack offers a large selection of Equestrian products for both Horse and Rider, including supplies for Stable & Vet, as well as providing a repair service. In November 2019 the Tack Shack launched their online shop and is currently shipping orders to customers daily to as far afield as Namibia. All orders are processed, picked, and packed by dedicated employees. Goods are sent out next day, but usually within 3 working days, depending on stock availability. New Premises “We are now taking the next step in our evolution with new premises in Stonewood Park, Kraaifontein, and I expect this will lead to even greater things. I think our business is unique in that we are the only full spectrum Equestrian store in Cape Town, offering sales, repair services as well as manufacturing a large selection of Equestrian products under our own brand name. Our business is not modelled as a corporate and I try to be hands-on working with the staff to ensure we all have the same vision and goals in a family like atmosphere.”  Customer Service “Customer service is very important to us, and with everything being under one roof, we can now extend our focus even more. We are planning to expand our manufacturing capability and offer our wholesale and retail client’s top quality products proudly made in South Africa,” Tanja concludes. As of 1 April 2022, the Tack Shack will be conducting its business from their new and beautifully designed premises at 41 Tanzanite Crescent, Stonewood Business Park, Kraaifontein. For more information contact 021 976 8044, or visit www.shop.tackshack.co.za