Gerda Steyn has long been an inspiration, and her incredible victory in the 56 km Two Oceans Marathon on 17 April 2022 would have seen her become a role model of even more wannabe runners. Gerda Steyn elevated her local darling status even further when she announced that she will be donating part of her, R250 000 bonus for breaking the 33-year-old TotalSports Two Oceans Marathon record towards the development of young athletes. She won half a million rand for her efforts, with the winner’s prize-money being R250 000.
An appreciative round of applause rang out inside the marquee on the sidelines of the finish line at the University of Cape Town during the post-race media conference when Steyn, her trademark smile lighting up the room, made the announcement. “I will donate some bonus money towards the development of young athletes in Maritzburg. I want to inspire the young athletes, to show them that we as South Africans can achieve great things.”
Gratitude Gerda Steyn set a new record in the 56 km Two Oceans Marathon as she went on to claim a third consecutive title in Cape Town recently. She beat Frith van der Merwe’s previous course record of 3:30:36, by becoming the first woman to break the 3.5 hour barrier in the race with a time of 3:29:42. The 32-year-old becomes the first athlete in 22 years to claim a hat-trick of victories in the ultra marathon. “The record stays home. I’m really proud and humbled by that. I love this race, and I will carry the record with the upmost humbleness and pure gratefulness because I know that I was carried today by the support I receive in such abundance,” she said afterwards.
Steyn now holds the national marathon, the Two Oceans, as well as the Comrades Up Run records – confirmation she’s South Africa’s best female roadrunner of all time. True Heroes One of our favourite Totalsports Two Oceans Marathon heroes, Frank Steyn, the Runner in School Shoes, achieved a PB of 06:43:39, up from 07:13 in 2019, huge blisters and bloodied toes. “It was an emotional journey once again,” says Frank Paco Steyn. Seeing my kids as I came out of Chapman’s Peak into Constantia Nek at the water station gave me the extra boost I needed. I had adopted ‘Conquer the current’ as my own internal personal motto when I felt the pain, in order to #KeepPushing.” Frank’s mission is to raise enough funds and awareness to eradicate barefoot learning in the Cape Flats in his lifetime, as part of a major initiative for the Run for Schools Foundation, who work closely on many levels to improve holistic learning conditions in Cape Flats schools. Positive Impact “Pacific has such incredible energy that emanates through any room he walks into. When we heard his story, I was so excited that he was joining our club.”
“He is so driven by making a difference and being as supportive as he possibly can be. It was amazing to run with him as an athlete, but also just sharing the road with him and seeing the positive impact he’s had on so many of the people watching and supporting, was really special.”  “He has always said that he runs to make a difference, and I’m grateful that he was willing and able to join our team and help us to qualify for Comrades 2022! I’m so glad and proud that Chaeli Sports has brought people together in this way.”
“We are extremely grateful for the amount of R16,900 Pacific Mbela raised for Chaeli Cottage Preschool and for the donation of R17,000 Trotters and Potters made to the fund-raiser.” “Everyone who donated has helped to make a difference in the lives of disabled children!”- Chaeli Mycroft, Ability Activist, fighting to change the perception of disability in South Africa and around the world.