Cape Town hosted the International Tourism Film Festival Africa 2022 (ITFFA) from 4-7 May 2022.  The festival’s fourth edition merged a competition between tourism films and documentaries from 315 entries from 55 countries with activities focused on tourism audio-visual production. In a vibrant Award Ceremony held at the Cape Town City Hall revealed 80 awards, including Silver, Gold, and Grand Prix winners of three competitive sections: DOC&TV, Tourism International and Tourism Africa. In the DOC&TV section, ‘Saving Seals’ (South Africa), produced by the conservation filmmaker and photographer Steve Benjamin, received the Grand Prix. The short film explores the history of the seal disentanglement program at the V&A Waterfront and the new technology enabling seals that cannot be helped through other means to be reached and disentangled. The Majestic Adventures of Ofelia de Souza’ (Portugal) was acclaimed with the Tourism International Grand Prix. The promotional video produced by New Light Pictures for Porto and North of Portugal Tourism Board presents this MICE destination of excellence, capturing the viewers’ attention with the magnetic character Ofelia de Souza. Among the international winners are audio-visual productions from Australia, Austria, Croatia, Fiji, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, and Uganda. ‘Explore Uganda – The Pearl of Africa’ (Uganda) was honoured as the Tourism Africa Grand Prix. The promotional video produced for Explore Uganda invites the viewers to awaken their senses to the beauty, the natural sites, tasty food, warm people, and all the unique things that only can be experienced in this impressive land. One of the festival’s initiatives was the Young Creative Student Challenge 2022, a competition where local students had the opportunity of creating short tourism videos with the support of audio-visual professionals and being evaluated for their work. ITFFA aims to honour the best tourism films and documentaries from all over the world and stimulate the national and African audio-visual industry development. Its thematic categories cover different tourism segments, such as Destinations, Products, and Services.