Canvas Collective Africa, founded earlier this year by luxury camping and specialist event veterans Dez Lundy and Samara Stern, have launched a truly unique camping and cuisine offering into some of the Western Cape’s most breathtakingly beautiful regions. Introducing Canvas Collective Africa’s Posh Tent and The Field Kitchen wilderness experiences; a journey into gloriously remote locations merging haute camping with fine cuisine and the great outdoors. What awaits intrepid road trippers is an immersive experience where locations will be determined by the sunshine quota, and where bountiful biomes are flush with forage-worthy ingredients. Reservations are now being accepted for the first camp-out from 14 April 2022. A Posh Tent sojourn is the ultimate for discerning adventurists and nature enthusiasts who relish camping but also appreciate a little pampering and skipping the schlep work. Step through the tent flap and what awaits is a high-end haven, a two-sleeper complete with state-of-the-art camping amenities including an en-suite bathroom including a rain shower and even a private fancy flushing loo. The living area is intimate yet roomy and centred by a Queen-sized bed. Outside the abode, nature watching is the order of the day, best observed from comfortable outdoor loungers and deep cushions. The Field Kitchen, South Africa’s first truly-mobile fine-dining restaurant, launches at the same time and is in the masterful hands of authentic food forager, Greg Henderson.
Gastronomes can expect adventurous yet approachable dishes that will incorporate his veld finds and other hyper local ingredients, paired with nearby estate wines and locally distilled spirits. Guests may choose from three different locations for the remainder of this year. The launch camp is located on an idyllic tranche of farmland in Botrivier in the Overberg region and will be available to über campers from April 14th and until June 30th 2022. From 7 July – 30 September 2022 Canvas Collective Africa then decamps and migrates to the fertile Biedouw Valley, just beyond Clanwilliam for the winter and spring seasons. This is flower season when the landscape becomes a magical palette of colour unique to South Africa. Bringing the year to a close from 7 October – 15 December 2022 will be the lesser known Witzenberg region, home to valleys of lush vines, orchards and majestic mountain ranges. For more information visit www.canvascollectiveafrica.com